Features are slightly more general than alpha factors.
Recall that alpha factors are signals that are ideally
predictive of whether future stock returns maybe positive or negative, and by how much.
Features are similar, but they don't
have as high a requirement to be predictive on their own.
A good feature is one that may be useful in combination
with other features perhaps used to split other features.
In other words, a good feature can be a conditional factor.
You may recall that concept of conditional factors such as idiosyncratic volatility,
which on their own may not tell the direction of the future returns.
However, in combination with other features or factors,
these conditional factors can be predictive of returns.
Recall that idiosyncratic volatility could be interpreted as
magnifying the signal of some other momentum or reversal signal.
So, features are like that and that when combined with other features,
they can be useful as alpha factors even
if they aren't sufficient as alpha factors on their own.
I'll start off with sharing some of what I call universal quan features.
Universal quan features are broadly useful for
quan research and for input into machine learning models.
Two important ones I often see,
and that you'll practice making are stock volatility and stock dollar volume.
Both of these can be interpreted as conditional factors that
adjust the impact of some other predictive feature.
For instance, high dollar volume over a window of time may indicate that
some momentum factor is more significant compared to when there's lower dollar volume.
Stock volatility is the variation of each stock's return over a specified time horizon.
We will use one month and six month time horizons.
So the one month and six month volatility of each stock can be a useful feature.
Stock dollar volume is the dollar amount of trades over a time horizon.
Again, we'll use one month and six month time horizons
and take the daily average over these horizons.
Each stock's average daily volume over a one month and
six month horizon can be a useful feature in a predictive model.